(gentle music)
- So through the experiences
with the user group
and some of the videos we've seen online
of people using X3 sometimes
they like to invent
their own way of using it.
I wanna strongly discourage this
because every movement was
really well thought out
and let me give you some examples.
When somebody hooks their X3 around a door
and has discovered a new
way to do tricep pushdowns
or something like that
what they don't realize
is when they throw a band
around a door they might
be putting 200 pounds of downward force,
300 pounds of downward force on that door.
Not only could they tear
the door off of their home
they might end up with
that door catapulted
by the force created by
the band into their face.
So X3 is self-contained for a reason.
Incredible forces in those bands, in fact,
when I do a deadlift with the Elite Band
because I'm six feet tall
it's 615 pounds for me.
There's an app that
calculates that for you.
Now you wanna do the
movements that are recommended
and in the training program.
Anything other than
that you don't wanna do.
I just wanna make that hard
recommendation for everybody.
Now I think part of why
people wanna customize things
is because they'll look at a body builder
and a body builder does
30 different movements
to complete their A/B split
workout or something like that.
Body builders do a lot of things that are,
I'll be nice, nonsensical and repetitive
but I can't explain why they
do that other than they think
they're getting a lot of specialization
but we have professional
body builders using X3
only doing the recommended protocol,
exactly what the program states to do,
and amazingly enough they're
stimulating every muscle
'cause remember there are
primary engagement muscles
like the pectorals.
You can consciously contract your pectoral
when you move your arm forward.
You can consciously
engage your bicep when you
bring your arm toward your face
but there are other muscles
that are stabilization muscles.
You don't really thing about
contracting your obliques
or your quadratus muscles,
and they are here and here,
but you engage them
constantly when doing X3
and you're developing them also
because they're stabilizers.
You don't think about them.
They just engage when you
need to be stabilized.
When you need to be stabilized
with a weight they engage.
through variable resistance,
with X3, it's an even greater
weight so you're stimulating
them to an even greater degree.
So please try not to invent
your own way of doing this.
Nothing is recommended other
than what is in the program.
Now that doesn't mean
the somebody won't come
up with an idea.
Email me, email the company
and we won't add something
later on but I'd say
roughly 500 different ideas
have come our way and all of them were bad
so let's just stick to the
program as recommended.